Add how-to-cite page (#861)
pathoplexus/pathoplexus: monorepo/website/src/pages/about/citation.mdx

Not sure which applies to you? Each sequence on Pathoplexus displays its data use status clearly.

# Open Data

Open Data can be used freely. There are no mandatory citation requirements, but we strongly encourage good scientific practice:

- Always list the accession numbers for sequences used in your work.
- Create a SeqSet and generate a DOI — this is the best way to permanently and precisely cite the data you used. ([How to create a SeqSet](https://claude.ai/docs/how-to/generate-seqset))
- Collaborate with data generators, especially when using extensive data from a specific region or country.

Data sharing depends on trust. Even for Open Data, please use it ethically and credit those who generated it.

# Restricted-Use Data

Restricted-Use Data has binding requirements. Using it means you've agreed to the [Data Use Terms](https://claude.ai/about/terms-of-use/data-use-terms).

## For unpublished work (reports, blog posts, social media, web tools)

> - Provide a list of accession numbers used, or create a [SeqSet](https://claude.ai/docs/how-to/generate-seqset) (recommended if using more than 5 sequences).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Provide a list of accession numbers used, or create a [SeqSet](https://pathoplexus.org/docs/how-to/generate-seqset) (recommended if using more than 5 sequences).
```

- Link back to Pathoplexus so that submitters can be identified and credited.

## For publications and preprints

You must first determine whether your Restricted-Use Data is part of the **Focal data** or the **Background data** of your analysis. These are defined in the [Data Use Terms (section 4.2.3)](https://claude.ai/about/terms-of-use/data-use-terms#423-deciding-if-restricted-use-data-is-part-of-a-focal-or-background-set) — please read carefully, and when in doubt, treat data as Focal.

### If Restricted-Use Data is in your Focal Set, you must do **all three** of the following:

1. **Include authorship** from the Submitting Group — or obtain and include a written Authorship Waiver as a supplemental document.
2. Create a SeqSet, generate a DOI, and cite the DOI **as a reference** in your manuscript. ([How to create a SeqSet](https://claude.ai/docs/how-to/generate-seqset))
3. **Add to your Acknowledgements**: _"We confirm that we have adhered to the Data Use Terms of Pathoplexus."_

### If Restricted-Use Data is in your Background Set, you must:

> - [Create a SeqSet](https://claude.ai/docs/how-to/generate-seqset), generate a DOI, and cite it **as a reference** in your manuscript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Create a SeqSet](https://pathoplexus.org/docs/how-to/generate-seqset), generate a DOI, and cite it **as a reference** in your manuscript.
```
